Update README.md for the data capture codelab (#1436)
google/android-fhir: codelabs/datacapture/README.md

> # Capture and process health data with Structured Data Capture Library

Reviewer: nit: with the Structured

Reviewer 2: The best practice is to not use "the" before product names. This product is named such that it sounds really weird though, so I ended up being inconsistent. :/ https://developers.google.com/style/product-names#use-the-with-product-names

Author: @williamito i think you're right. and i think i probably have in other places written "the Structured Data Capture Library". will keep an eye out for this and correct when i see any occurrences.

## 1. Before you begin

### What you'll build

> In this codelab, you're going to build an Android app with Structured Data

Reviewer: qq: should we be using `you're` or `we are`

Reviewer 2: In general, docs prefer 2nd person. https://developers.google.com/style/person

Reviewer 2: Oh, I thought this was about "you" vs "we". Luckily, style guide also prefers conversational tone so contractions are fine - see these examples in the tone section: https://developers.google.com/style/tone#some-techniques-and-approaches-to-consider :)

Capture Library. Your app will use the Structured Data Capture Library to render
and process FHIR Questionnaires and responses.

### What you'll learn

*   How to integrate Structured Data Capture Library into your Android
    application
*   How to display a Questionnaire
*   How to get answers as a QuestionnaireResponse
*   How to extract FHIR resources from a QuestionnaireResponse

### What you'll need

*   A recent version of [Android Studio (v4.1.2+)](https://developer.android.com/studio)
*   [Android Emulator](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator) or a physical Android device
*   The sample code
*   Basic knowledge of Android development in Kotlin

> This codelab is focused on [Structured Data Capture Library](https://github.com/google/android-fhir/tree/master/datacapture). Non-relevant

Reviewer: nit: on the Structured

Author: same.

concepts and code blocks are glossed over and are provided for you to simply
copy and paste. If you haven't built Android apps before, you can start by
[building your first app](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp).

## 2. Get set up

### Download the Code

To download the code for this codelab, clone the Android FHIR SDK repo:
`git clone https://github.com/google/android-fhir.git`

The starter project for this codelab is located in `codelabs/datacapture`.

## 3. Add Structured Data Capture Library to the project

### Import the app into Android Studio

Let's start by importing the starter app into Android Studio.

Open Android Studio, select **Import Project (Gradle, Eclipse ADT, etc.)** and
choose the `codelabs/datacapture` folder from the source code that you have downloaded
earlier.

![Android Studio start screen](images/image1.png "Android Studio start screen")

> ### Add the dependencies for Structured Data Capture Library

Reviewer: nit: for the Structured

The Structured Data Capture Library dependencies allow you to integrate the
Structured Data Capture Library in your app. Add the following lines to the end

> of the `app/build.gradle.kts` file of your project:

Reviewer: link to file

Author: I'm actually not sure about this comment, and the other comments you left below to add links to files to be edited locally. i think it actually would add confusion to create links. we want developers to find this file in their IDE rather than in browser. So no need to add link in my view.

```kotlin
dependencies {
  // ...

    implementation("com.google.android.fhir:data-capture:0.1.0-beta03")
    implementation("androidx.fragment:fragment-ktx:1.4.1")
}

> ### Sync your project with gradle files

Reviewer: should Gradle be capitalized?

Author: i think so yeah. done.

To be sure that all dependencies are available to your app, you should sync your
project with gradle files at this point.

Select **Sync Project with Gradle Files**
(![Gradle sync button](images/image3.png "Gradle sync button")) from the Android Studio
toolbar.

## 4. Run the starter app

Now that you have imported the project into Android Studio and added the
dependencies for Structured Data Capture Library, you are ready to run the app
for the first time.

Connect your Android device via USB to your host, or
[Start the Android Studio emulator,](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator)
and click Run (![Run button](images/image2.png "Run button")) in the Android
Studio toolbar.

TODO: Screenshot of starter app with just "Hello World"

As you can see there isn't much here yet, so let's get right into displaying a
questionnaire in your app!

## 5. Display a Questionnaire

In this step, you will add the functionality to the starter app to render a

> questionnaire in a `FragmentContainerView`.

Reviewer: link to what a FragmentContainerView is . I think this link should be enough:
https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/fragment/app/FragmentContainerView

Author: done

Along the way, Android Studio will prompt you to add the necessary imports:

*   `androidx.core.os.bundleOf`
*   `androidx.fragment.app.add`
*   `androidx.fragment.app.commit`
*   `com.google.android.fhir.datacapture.QuestionnaireFragment`

### Step 1: Add a FragmentContainerView

Add a `FragmentContainerView` to the application's layout. This is where the
`QuestionnaireFragment` that you will create later will be displayed.

> 1.  Open `activity_main.xml` (**res > layout > activity\_main.xml**).

Reviewer: Could also link to the file

    from the `<TextView` to the closing `/>`.
5.  Add a `FragmentContainerView` inside the `ConstraintLayout`. Your
    `activity_main.xml` file should look like this:

    ```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent">

    <androidx.fragment.app.FragmentContainerView
        android:id="@+id/fragment_container_view"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        app:layout_constraintTop_toTopOf="parent" />

    </androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout>
    ```

### Step 2: Configure a QuestionnaireFragment

`QuestionnaireFragment` requires a JSON encoded FHIR Questionnaire for it to
render. Since the questionnaire is small (&lt;512 KB), you will include it as a
`String` in a `Bundle` of arguments that will be used to create the fragment.
Larger questionnaires should be provided as a `URI` for performance reasons.

> You can look at the `questionnaire.json` file if you want, but one of the

Reviewer: link to questionnaire.json

Author: ditto

benefits of the Structured Data Capture Library is that you don't need to know
the structure of the FHIR Questionnaire (or anything about FHIR) to get it to
render it! You'll look more closely at this file later in the codelab.

> Open `MainActivity.kt` and add the following code to the `MainActivity` class:

Reviewer: link to MainActivity

Add the following code to the `MainActivity` class:

```kotlin
// Step 3: Add the QuestionnaireFragment to the FragmentContainerView
if (savedInstanceState == null) {
    supportFragmentManager.commit {
        setReorderingAllowed(true)
        add<QuestionnaireFragment>(R.id.fragment_container_view, args = questionnaireParams)
    }
}
```

Learn more about
[how to use fragments](https://developer.android.com/guide/fragments).

Let's run the codelab by clicking Run
(![Run button](images/image2.png "Run button")) in the Android Studio toolbar.
You should see something similar to this:

TODO: Screenshot showing questionnaire rendered in an emulator

Navigate through the questionnaire and try entering some answers. There are a
few different answer widgets used, including booleans, text, and dates, which
were automatically rendered based on the underlying type in the original FHIR
questionnaire.

*Technically, that's all you need to do to render a questionnaire!
Congratulations!*

A questionnaire isn't very helpful if you can't see the answers that users input
though. Let's go on to the next step of getting a Questionnaire Response!

## 6. Get a Questionnaire Response

> In previous steps, you rendered a FHIR questionnaire in your app.

Reviewer: nit: In the previous steps,

Author: done

In this section, you'll get the answers from the questionnaire as a
QuestionnaireResponse.

Find the `submitQuestionnaire()` method and add the following code:

```kotlin
// Get a questionnaire response
val fragment = supportFragmentManager.findFragmentById(R.id.fragment_container_view)
        as QuestionnaireFragment
val questionnaireResponse = fragment.getQuestionnaireResponse()

// Print the response to the log
val jsonParser = FhirContext.forCached(FhirVersionEnum.R4).newJsonParser()
val questionnaireResponseString =
    jsonParser.encodeResourceToString(questionnaireResponse)

> Log.d("response", questionnaireResponseString)

Reviewer: I think we use `Timber` library now for logging right?

Author: in the codelab we do the simplest thing. i don't think we should use timber. we should do whatever that's the easiest and requires the minimal amount of additional knowledge.

```kotlin
val questionnaire =
    jsonParser.parseResource(questionnaireJsonString) as Questionnaire
val bundle = ResourceMapper.extract(questionnaire, questionnaireResponse)
```

`ResourceMapper.extract()` requires a HAPI FHIR Questionnaire, which you can
create by parsing the questionnaire JSON string from earlier, and a
QuestionnaireResponse, which we already got earlier. It returns a HAPI FHIR
transaction
[Bundle](https://hapifhir.io/hapi-fhir/apidocs/hapi-fhir-structures-r4/org/hl7/fhir/r4/model/Bundle.html)
containing one or more extracted resources–in this case a single Patient
resource.

## 8. Congratulations!

You have used the Structured Data Capture Library to process FHIR questionnaires
and responses in your app:

*   Display a Questionnaire
*   Get a Questionnaire Response
*   Extract FHIR Resources from a QuestionnaireResponse

That is all you need to get it up and running!

As you proceed, you might like to work with FHIR resources in more ways
throughout your application. Check out the
[FHIR Engine Library](https://github.com/google/android-fhir/wiki/FHIR-Engine-Library)
of the Android FHIR SDK to learn how to store and manage FHIR resources locally

> in your application and synchronize data with a FHIR server.

Reviewer: nit: with a remote FHIR server.

Author: done

### What we've covered

> *   How to add Structured Data Capture Library to your Android app

Reviewer: nit: add the Structured

Author: ditto

# Capture and process health data with Structured Data Capture Library

## 1. Before you begin

### What you'll build

In this codelab, you're going to build an Android app with Structured Data
Capture Library. Your app will use the Structured Data Capture Library to render
and process FHIR Questionnaires and responses.

### What you'll learn

*   How to integrate Structured Data Capture Library into your Android
    application
*   How to display a Questionnaire
*   How to get answers as a QuestionnaireResponse
*   How to extract FHIR resources from a QuestionnaireResponse

### What you'll need

> *   A recent version of Android Studio (v4.1.2+)

Reviewer: add link to Download page

Author: done

> *   Android Studio Emulator or a physical Android device

Reviewer: add link to Emulator setup page

Author: done

*   The sample code
*   Basic knowledge of Android development in Kotlin

> This codelab is focused on Structured Data Capture Library. Non-relevant

Reviewer: add link to SDC folder

Author: done

concepts and code blocks are glossed over and are provided for you to simply
copy and paste. If you haven't built Android apps before, you can start by
[building your first app](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/firstapp).

## 2. Get set up

### Download the Code

> Click the following link to download all the code for this codelab:
> 
> **Download source code**
> 
> Unpack the downloaded zip file. This will unpack a root folder
> (`android-fhir-sdk-main`) with all of the resources you will need. For this
> codelab, you will only need the sources in the `structured-data-capture`
> subdirectory.

Reviewer 2: This was written assuming the codelab would be a .zip somewhere, need to update with instructions to e.g. clone the repo instead.

```suggestion
To download the code for this codelab, clone the Android FHIR SDK repo:
 `git clone https://github.com/google/android-fhir.git`

The starter project for this codelab is located in `codelabs/datacapture`.
```

Author: done

The `structured-data-capture` subdirectory in the (TODO: ADD LINK) repository
contains two directories:

*   **starter**—Starting code that you build upon for this codelab.

> *   **final**—Completed code for the finished sample app.

Reviewer 2: Edit or remove, we don't have starter/final versions.

Author: done

## 3. Add Structured Data Capture Library to the project

### Import the app into Android Studio

Let's start by importing the starter app into Android Studio.

Open Android Studio, select **Import Project (Gradle, Eclipse ADT, etc.)** and

> choose the `starter` folder from the source code that you have downloaded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
choose the `codelabs/datacapture` folder from the source code that you have downloaded
```

earlier.

> ![alt_text](images/image1.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Android Studio start screen](images/image1.png "Android Studio start screen")
```

### Add the dependencies for Structured Data Capture Library

The Structured Data Capture Library dependencies allow you to integrate the
Structured Data Capture Library in your app. Add the following lines to the end

> of the `app/build.gradle` file of your project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the `app/build.gradle.kts` file of your project:
```

> ```
> dependencies {
>   // ...
> 
>     implementation 'com.google.android.fhir:data-capture:0.1.0-beta03'
>     implementation 'androidx.fragment:fragment-ktx:1.4.1'
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: Update for migration to .kts - the comments in the actual build.gradle file point to old versions of the data capture library and ktx btw.

```suggestion
```kotlin
dependencies {
  // ...

    implementation("com.google.android.fhir:data-capture:0.1.0-beta03")
    implementation("androidx.fragment:fragment-ktx:1.4.1")
}
```
```

### Sync your project with gradle files

To be sure that all dependencies are available to your app, you should sync your
project with gradle files at this point.

Select **Sync Project with Gradle Files**

> (![alt_text](images/image2.png "image_tooltip")) from the Android Studio

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(![Gradle sync button](images/image3.png "Gradle sync button")) from the Android Studio
```

toolbar.

## 4. Run the starter app

Now that you have imported the project into Android Studio and added the
dependencies for Structured Data Capture Library, you are ready to run the app
for the first time.

Connect your Android device via USB to your host, or
[Start the Android Studio emulator,](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator)

> and click Run (![alt_text](images/image3.png "image_tooltip")) in the Android

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and click Run (![Run button](images/image2.png "Run button")) in the Android
```

Studio toolbar.

TODO: Screenshot of starter app with just "Hello World"

As you can see there isn't much here yet, so let's get right into displaying a
questionnaire in your app!

## 5. Display a Questionnaire

In this step, you will add the functionality to the starter app to render a
questionnaire in a `FragmentContainerView`.

Along the way, Android Studio will prompt you to add the necessary imports:

*   `androidx.core.os.bundleOf`
*   `androidx.fragment.app.add`
*   `androidx.fragment.app.commit`
*   `com.google.android.fhir.datacapture.QuestionnaireFragment`

### Step 1: Add a FragmentContainerView

Add a `FragmentContainerView` to the application's layout. This is where the
`QuestionnaireFragment` that you will create later will be displayed.

1.  Open `activity_main.xml` (**res > layout > activity\_main.xml**).
2.  Find the options for Code, Split, and Design views in the upper right of the
    Layout Editor.
3.  Select the Code view.\

>     ![alt_text](images/image4.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Layout view options](images/image4.png "Layout view options")
```

render it! You'll look more closely at this file later in the codelab.

Open `MainActivity.kt` and add the following code to the `MainActivity` class:

```kotlin
// Step 2: Configure a QuestionnaireFragment val questionnaireJsonString =
getStringFromAssets("questionnaire.json")

val questionnaireParams = bundleOf(
QuestionnaireFragment.EXTRA_QUESTIONNAIRE_JSON_STRING to questionnaireJsonString
)
```

### Step 3: Add the QuestionnaireFragment to the FragmentContainerView

To display the `QuestionnaireFragment` within the layout container, use the
`FragmentManager` to create a `FragmentTransaction`. The `FragmentManager`
handles instantiation using the previously created `questionnaireParams`.

Add the following code to the `MainActivity` class:

```kotlin
// Step 3: Add the QuestionnaireFragment to the FragmentContainerView
if (savedInstanceState == null) {
    supportFragmentManager.commit {
        setReorderingAllowed(true)
        add<QuestionnaireFragment>(R.id.fragment_container_view, args = questionnaireParams)
    }
}
```

Learn more about
[how to use fragments](https://developer.android.com/guide/fragments).

Let's run the codelab by clicking Run

> (![alt_text](images/image5.png "image_tooltip")) in the Android Studio toolbar.
> You should see something similar to this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(![Run button](images/image2.png "Run button")) in the Android Studio toolbar.
You should see something similar to this:
```
